# Existing Moleculer App
Part of what makes Nanobox so useful is you don't even need Nodejs or Moleculer installed on your local machine to use them.

## Setup

#### cd into your Moleculer app
Change into an existing project folder:

```bash
cd my-moleculer-app
```

**HEADS UP**: All `nanobox` commands *must* be run from within your project folder.

#### Add a boxfile.yml
Nanobox uses the <a href="https://docs.nanobox.io/boxfile/" target="\_blank">boxfile.yml</a> to configure your app's environment.

At the root of your project create a `boxfile.yml` telling Nanobox you want to use the Nodejs <a href="https://docs.nanobox.io/engines/" target="\_blank">engine</a> and include a [Redis component](/redis):

```yaml
run.config:
  engine: nodejs

data.redis:
  image: nanobox/redis:3.2
```

## Configure Moleculer

### Update the Redis Connection
Update the Redis connection information in `moleculer.config.js` to use environment variables automatically generated by Nanobox. You'll need to update the `cacher` add `transporter` configs.

```javascript
cacher: `redis://${process.env.DATA_REDIS_HOST}:6379`,
transporter: `redis://${process.env.DATA_REDIS_HOST}:6379`,
```

## Start the Dev Environment & Moleculer
Add a convenient way to access your app from the browser, then start the dev environment.

```bash
# add a local dns for easy browser access
nanobox dns add local moleculer.local

# start the dev environment and start molecular
nanobox run yarn run dev
```

Visit your app at <a href="http://moleculer.local:3000" target="\_blank">moleculer.local:3000</a>

## Explore
With Nanobox, you have everything you need develop and run your moleculer app:

```bash
# drop into a Nanobox console
nanobox run

# where nodejs is installed,
node -v

# npm is installed,
npm -v

# and your code is mounted
ls

# exit the console
exit
```

## Now what?
Whats next? Think about what else your app might need and hopefully the topics below will help you get started with the next steps of your development!

* [Add a Database](/nodejs/moleculer/add-a-database)
* [Frontend Javascript](/nodejs/moleculer/frontend-javascript)
* [Local Environment Variables](/nodejs/moleculer/local-evars)
* [Back to Moleculer Overview](/nodejs/moleculer)
